all right it's mid 2024 so you know what
that means another new version of iOS
coming to an iPhone near you so I've
been testing the newest version of iOS
18 on my iPhone for the past couple
weeks now it's been in beta and now that
the public beta is out you two can test
it on an iPhone before it comes out for
everyone in September but there is some
interesting stuff in this version now
last year I remember talking about how
almost every single one of those new
features was super
ecosystem based like they depend on
having a friend with an iPhone or having
some other Apple device in your life but
it's kind of the opposite with these
they're all just basically new features
to the iPhone anyway so You' love to see
that now for this video the one thing
I'm leaving out is Apple intelligence
stuff that's like an entire separate
bucket of stuff that to be honest hasn't
really been available for me to test in
the pre-release betas so I'm going to
make a separate video just about that
stuff as soon as it's actually testable
so be sure to get subscribed to see that
when I actually drop that video but this
video is a top five of everything else
all right number five the new control
center so I have this at number five
because while there is a good amount of
new stuff here I don't know if I like
all of the new changes but let me know
what you think so when you pull down
from the corner the new control center
is first of all a little bit more
colorful and it's paginated it's three
pages now I'll honestly probably never
really use the second two pages but they
are a full page page visualizer for
whatever media is playing and then a
list of all these OneTouch toggles for
your basic connectivity but actually
turns out this full page list is really
just an expanded version of what you
already had on the first page so you can
get there with a couple more Taps but
okay so on that first page if you hit
the plus button in the corner it shows a
grid and then you can play with the size
and placement of anything that has a tab
in that bottom corner so they all kind
of have these predefined sizes that they
morph between so you can mess around
here with you know basically designing
your perfect layout for your control
screen you can add new controls and
there's a whole massive list of them
that search through here and surface
things that you do often and right now
these are basically all Apple app
controls what I'm more interested in
though is I mean these are all controls
like I said not widgets so they're for
controlling things very directly like
turning on Wi-Fi or turning up the
brightness and so Apple has said that
third party apps are going to be able to
build in controls as well so there's
none here now but I very much look
forward to to like a OneTouch turning on
the AC in the car or OneTouch opening up
the barcode scanner in my calorie
tracker app or something like that so
just having more controls surfaced in
here that's going to be pretty sweet
we've also noticed this new flashlight
control which when you click it allows
you to control both the intensity and
the beam width of the torch for some
reason uh the intensity part definitely
works the beam width I don't know if I'm
as convinced on that one but I guess
it's still really cool cool UI oh also
there's a new button up here to turn off
your phone kind of like Android added a
while ago in the settings but also you
can now finally change the controls on
your lock screen now from the default
which have been the flashlight and the
camera for forever you can hold down
customize lock screen and get in there
and go to town again I hope there's
third party ones that end up here but
there's already a ton of options I'm
excited to set mine to my to-do list app
someday but that brings us to number
four the number four best new iOS 18
feature and that's the passwords app you
know every once in a while there's just
a new update that installs a new app on
everyone's phones and just drops it on
your home screens so this is one of them
but essentially what this is is just
breaking out all of the password tools
that were previously buried in the
settings on the phone and making it an
app so your iPhone's been saving your
passwords for a while now saving Wi-Fi
passcodes remembering all this stuff
this app is just a super simple way of
finding it all in one place searching
through that stuff and making sense of
it plus it also supports some new
features so there's two Factor
authentication and pass keys and then
there's a couple extra things on top
that may be good enough to get you to
switch from whatever password manager
app you're using on your iPhone to
Apple's passwords app so at the bottom
left you can create shared passwords and
pass Keys within a group of trusted
contacts works with other people with
iPhones anyway and then when you're
signing up for some new account
somewhere it'll do the same thing it
always does it offers a super secure
password and then offers to remember it
for you but what I found interesting is
it doesn't really have like a master
password it just just seems on the
iPhone to default to face ID so if
you've got face ID on your iPhone It'll
ask for that to log in no master
password really the main reason I'm not
going to be using this app is because I
stole daily an Android phone and of
course they did not make an Android
version of this passwords app they did
make a Mac app and they also did make a
Chrome extension which is interesting
but yeah no Android app and I still log
into a bunch of stuff on Android so it's
not for me but number three is going to
have to be the new home screen
customization some of you might have
expected this to be higher like number
one or number two but I have my reasons
and maybe let me know if you agree with
them so the day has finally come there
is new customization stuff available to
iPhone home screens kind of I mean
there's some good stuff and also some
weird stuff I'll start with the stuff I
like here's the easy part iPhone users
can now put their icons anywhere on
their home screens that they
want welcome to 2024 iPhone users who's
got it better than you now everything
still snaps to the grid of course but
now you can actually put icons on the
right side or the bottom of your home
screen where they'll actually be
reachable and they won't have to snap
back up to the top how cool is that
first they give you widgets now they
give you this it's unbelievable stuff
but now okay if you want to customize
even further you hold down on anywhere
on the home screen and there's a little
edit button at the top you hit that and
then you hit customize and then this is
it this is the entire home screen
customization menu now for the iPhone so
you can go dark mode which tints your
wallpaper a little darker and then sets
your icons that have a dark mode version
to dark mode or you could set light mode
which is the opposite it sets your icons
to light and it ttin your wallpaper
light and then automatic but there's
also this large button here which just
makes all of your icons larger but then
also removes the text honestly kind of
clean not going to lie but then there's
this tinted button which feels kind of
cursed so this is already kind of a
weird looking icon when you click it it
lets you tint the color of all the icons
on your home screen to a single matching
color which sounds kind of cool in
theory to match your wallpaper and
actually there's even a Color Picker to
drop exactly the same color that you're
using from your wallpaper as your tint
color but there's just something about
this tint that I can't quite get right
like I haven't gotten any combination to
really look that good at all now there's
been some updates on this since the
first beta uh still doesn't look look
great like it looks better than before
but here's what I think is going on here
there are certain apps that are like
pretty simple and high contrast icons
that look fine like some of them are
Apple apps some of them are third party
apps and then especially Apple widgets
like look at this weather widget that
looks great that looks really solid with
this nice accent color because it keeps
everything really readable but then
there are also some third party app
icons and widgets that just look
completely illegible like they may need
to be updated to support this tinting
thing in a more contrasty way so it's
the mixing of these two that look weird
like even on my home screen look at
carrot like the weather app or superlist
they look worse than the rest of the
icons on my home screen I think the
standard that they're aiming for is like
a dark gray background with a tinted
glyph in the middle instead of the whole
thing being tinted so it is what it is I
will also say Google has also tried this
with material u in Android and it also
kind of went weird in its own different
unique way basically it would set all
the icons to a monochrome version but if
an app didn't support it it just didn't
change so a lot of people had a mix of
monochrome icons and colorful icons
which also doesn't look good at all so I
guess the tinting method could be
considered a workaround I'm sure people
will play with this more icons will
continue to get updates I'm sure someday
maybe it'll look great for some people
but I haven't seen that yet but all
right number two for me is the little
things again there are a bunch of tiny
little things and small features that
individually are not huge but they'll
kind of feel like they add up to a bunch
of useful things in the end a lot of
them didn't even make the keynote but
like game mode for example they talked
about this we know that when you have a
game open it gives it CPU priority and
minimizes Bluetooth latency for any
wireless headphones or controllers
that's the really simple thing but it's
nice the photos app also got a redesign
but I also am more impressed with the
smart search inside of photos it works
much better so if I search for something
like license plate for example not only
does it recognize and find all the
photos in your gallery with license
plates but it also gives you these
suggestions to narrow it down to find
the exact one that you're looking for
and it actually works I've also noticed
they added a bunch of shortcuts to
Shazam everywhere including an action
button preset as one of the new defaults
in the settings app this wasn't here
before I thought that was interesting
and then I Googled it and apparently
Apple bought Shazam not that long ago
which I totally forgot about so there
you have more of that and RCS support
does appear to finally be live on the
iPhone in 20 2024 it's going great now
as I predicted it is still a green
bubble but you can now finally text
between any modern Android phone and an
iPhone and actually get high quality
media I sent myself a 3 megabyte image
file from the iPhone and I got a full
quality 3 megabyte image on Android and
there's also now typing indicators and
read receipts now reactions seem to be
working well so it's not fully
integrated into a blue bubble iMessage
like maybe some people were hoping but
Apple can now say that they finally did
it and now that person from that one
interview doesn't have to buy his mom an
iPhone but then number one the number
one best new feature in iOS 18 bro it's
a calculator it's actually the
calculator now you might have thought
this was just an iPad thing cuz we we
all saw this get demoed at the keynote
in iPad OS 18 but it actually is on the
iPhone as well so as a default you open
up the calculator app it just looks like
a basic calculator this looks very
familiar but at the bottom left there's
this little toggle where you can switch
to a scientific calculator okay pretty
classic or you can switch to this new
thing called math notes and now it
basically looks like a Notes app so you
can create a new note and literally just
start handwriting math notes literally
you can write an equation and if you
happen to write that equal sign it can
automatically solve that equation for
you and keep it updated as you continue
writing or typing it's pretty simp
there are also all kinds of other things
it can do from variables to graphs it's
basically doing everything I was asking
wolf from alpha to do lately but a kind
of underrated part of this is how it it
feels very well considered and it's also
syncing across devices just like as a
bunch of notes so your calculator just
kind of gained a notes section so if you
add a bunch of stuff to notes on your
iPhone the iPad with the calculator has
all the same notes and you can edit them
on the other device and if you happen to
redefine a variable lower down in the
same note then it actually knows then
from that point on to treat that
variable as the new value you gave it
but keeps the old value for everything
above it it's it's very well
impressively thought out now obviously
this stuff is going to be easier with a
bigger screen and with a apple pencil
but man I was doing all this stuff in
school with a paper notebook and a TI 84
so at the risk of sounding kind of old I
totally wish I had something like this
when I was in school it's very
impressive it's doing so so many things
it's recognizing my handwriting it's
obviously answering the equations I'm
asking of it but it's also writing the
answers in my own handwriting and then
it's straightening everything up and
it's making everything searchable and
indexable through not just that math
notes app in all the devices but across
my whole phone so it's pretty sick I'm
impressed by this more than anything
else I've seen in iOS 18 so that's why
it's my number one feature in iOS 18 but
there's your whole top five but like I
said get subscribed to see a deep dive
into Apple intelligence cuz this is the
thing that kind of permeates the entire
iPhone and Apple's whole ecosystem so
that video is coming up soon and that's
been it for this thanks for watching
catch you in the next one peace